feat(laguna): support packed THD context parallelism (#3640)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel: docs/model-coverage/llm/poolside/laguna.mdx

> description: ""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Laguna Mixture-of-Experts language models in NeMo AutoModel, including Laguna S 2.1, Laguna XS 2.1, expert parallelism, and THD sequence packing."
```

slug: model-coverage/large-language-models/poolside/laguna
---

> [Laguna](https://huggingface.co/poolside) is Poolside's hybrid-attention MoE language model family. The Automodel implementation supports full SFT with expert parallelism for Laguna S 2.1 and Laguna XS 2.1, including native THD sequence packing with context parallelism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Laguna](https://huggingface.co/poolside) is Poolside's hybrid-attention Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) language model family. NeMo AutoModel supports full SFT with expert parallelism for Laguna S 2.1 and Laguna XS 2.1, including native THD sequence packing with context parallelism.
```

|---|---|
| [laguna_s_2p1_hellaswag_ep16.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_s_2p1_hellaswag_ep16.yaml) | SFT — Laguna S 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP16 |
| [laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8.yaml) | SFT — Laguna XS 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP8 and 1K NEAT sequence packing |

> | [laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8_cp2_thd.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8_cp2_thd.yaml) | SFT — Laguna XS 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP8, CP2, and 1K THD sequence packing |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [laguna_s_2p1_hellaswag_ep16.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_s_2p1_hellaswag_ep16.yaml) | SFT, Laguna S 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP16 |
| [laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8.yaml) | SFT, Laguna XS 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP8 and 1K NEAT sequence packing |
| [laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8_cp2_thd.yaml](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel/blob/main/examples/llm_finetune/laguna/laguna_xs_2p1_hellaswag_ep8_cp2_thd.yaml) | SFT, Laguna XS 2.1 on HellaSwag with EP8, CP2, and 1K THD sequence packing |
```
